Initial 16.3 release notes (#10192)
chef/chef: RELEASE_NOTES.md

This file holds "in progress" release notes for the current release under development and is intended for consumption by the Chef Documentation team. Please see <https://docs.chef.io/release_notes/> for the official Chef release notes.

# What's New in 16.3

## Chef InSpec 4.22.1

Chef InSpec has been updated from 4.21.1 to 4.22.1. This new release includes the following improvements:

- The `=` character is now allowed for command line inputs
- `apt-cdrom` repositories are now skipped when parsing out the list of apt repositories
- Faulty profiles are now reported instead of causing a crash
- Errors are no longer logged to stdout with the `html2` reporter
- macOS Big Sur is now correctly identified as macOS

## New Resources

### windows_firewall_profile

> The `windows_firewall_profile` allows you to `enable`, `disable`, or `configure` Windows Firewall profiles. For example you can now setup default actions and configure fules for a the `Public` profile using this single resource instead of managing your own PowerShell code in a `powershell_script` resource:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `windows_firewall_profile` allows you to `enable`, `disable`, or `configure` Windows Firewall profiles. For example you can now setup default actions and configure rules for the `Public` profile using this single resource instead of managing your own PowerShell code in a `powershell_script` resource:
```

`fules` is not getting recognized as a typo because it is in `chef_dictionary.txt`. Is that intentional? What are `fules`?

This file holds "in progress" release notes for the current release under development and is intended for consumption by the Chef Documentation team. Please see <https://docs.chef.io/release_notes/> for the official Chef release notes.

# What's New in 16.3

## Chef InSpec 4.22.1

Chef InSpec has been updated from 4.21.1 to 4.22.1. This new release includes the following improvements:

- The `=` character is now allowed for command line inputs
- `apt-cdrom` repositories are now skipped when parsing out the list of apt repositories
- Faulty profiles are now reported instead of causing a crash
- Errors are no longer logged to stdout with the `html2` reporter
- macOS Big Sur is now correctly identified as macOS

## New Resources

### windows_firewall_profile

> The `windows_firewall_profile` allows you to `enable`, `disable`, or `configure` Windows Firewall profiles. For example you can now setup default actions and configure rules for the `Public` profile using this single resource instead of managing your own PowerShell code in a `powershell_script` resource:

Reviewer 2: I think this might be better as "and" `configure` rather than "or".  Since the configuration is part of the `:enable` action, and no longer a separate action on its own.

Author: If you left the properties empty wouldn't you get just an enable?

Reviewer 2: yes. that's true.

```ruby
windows_firewall_profile 'Public' do
  default_inbound_action 'Block'
  default_outbound_action 'Allow'
  allow_inbound_rules 'False'

>   display_notification 'False'

Reviewer 2: The final version of this had this using `true` and `false` rather than the Strings.  Though I realize I didn't update the examples as I thought I had, so I'm putting in a PR to fix that now, but it should be fixed here as well.

Reviewer 2: PR #10198

Author: If you left the properties empty wouldn't you get just an enable?

Author: Fixed

  action :enable
end
```

For a complete guide to all properties and additional examples see [windows_firewall_profile documentation](https://docs.chef.io/resources/windows_firewall_profile)

## Resource Updates

### build_essential

Log output has been improved in the `build_essential` resource when running on macOS systems.

### chef_client_scheduled_task

The `chef_client_scheduled_task` resource no longer sets up the schedule task with invalid double quoting around the command to run. Thanks for reporting this issue [@tiobagio](https://github.com/tiobagio/).

### execute

The `user` property in the `execute` resource can now accept user IDs as Integers.

### git

The `git` resource will no longer fail if syncing a branch that already exists locally. Thanks for fixing this [@lotooo](https://github.com/lotooo/).

### macos_user_defaults

The `macos_user_defaults` has received a ground-up refactoring with new actions, additional properties, and better overall reliability:

- Improved idempotency by properly loading the current state of domains.
- Improved how we set `dict` and `array` type data.

> - Improved logging to show the existing key/value pair that are being changed and improved the property state data we send to handlers and/or Chef Automate.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Improved logging to show the existing key/value pair that is changed, and improved the property state data that the resource sends to handlers and/or Chef Automate.
```

>   - Improved logging to show the existing key/value pair that are being changed and improved the property state data we send to handlers and/or Chef Automate.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Improved logging to show the existing key/value pair that is changed, and improved the property state data that the resource sends to handlers and/or Chef Automate.
```

Author: Fixed

- Fixed a failure when setting keys or values that included a space.

> - Replaced the existing non-functional `global` property with a new default for the `domain` property. To set a key/value on the `NSGlobalDomain` domain you can either set that value explicitly or just skip `domain` property entirely and Chef Infra Client will default to `NSGlobalDomain`. The existing property has been marked as deprecated and we will ship a Cookstyle rule to detect cookbooks using this property in the future.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Replaced the existing non-functional `global` property with a new default for the `domain` property. To set a key/value pair on the `NSGlobalDomain` domain, you can either set that value explicitly or just skip `domain` property entirely and Chef Infra Client will default to `NSGlobalDomain`. The existing property has been marked as deprecated and we will ship a Cookstyle rule to detect cookbooks using this property in the future.
```

>   - Replaced the existing non-functional `global` property with a new default for the `domain` property. To set a key/value on the `NSGlobalDomain` domain you can either set that value explicitly or just skip `domain` property entirely and Chef Infra Client will default to `NSGlobalDomain`. The existing property has been marked as deprecated and we will ship a Cookstyle rule to detect cookbooks using this property in the future.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Replaced the existing non-functional `global` property with a new default for the `domain` property. To set a key/value pair on the `NSGlobalDomain` domain, you can either set that value explicitly or just skip the `domain` property entirely and Chef Infra Client will default to `NSGlobalDomain`. The existing property has been marked as deprecated and we will ship a Cookstyle rule to detect cookbooks using this property in the future.
```

Author: Fixed

> - Fixed the type property to only accepts valid inputs. Previously typos or otherwise incorrect values would just be ignored, resulting in unexpected behavior. This may cause failures in your codebase if you previously used incorrect values, and we will be shipping a Cookstyle rule to detect and correct these values in the future.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Fixed the `type` property to only accept valid inputs. Previously typos or otherwise incorrect values would just be ignored resulting in unexpected behavior. This may cause failures in your codebase if you previously used incorrect values. We will be shipping a Cookstyle rule to detect and correct these values in the future.
```

>   - Fixed the type property to only accepts valid inputs. Previously typos or otherwise incorrect values would just be ignored, resulting in unexpected behavior. This may cause failures in your codebase if you previously used incorrect values, and we will be shipping a Cookstyle rule to detect and correct these values in the future.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Fixed the `type` property to only accept valid inputs. Previously, typos or otherwise incorrect values would just be ignored resulting in unexpected behavior. This may cause failures in your codebase if you previously used incorrect values. We will be shipping a Cookstyle rule to detect and correct these values in the future.
```

- Added a new `delete` action to allow users to remove a key from a domain.

> - Added a new host property that lets you set per-host values. If you set this to :current it sets the -currentHost flag.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Added a new `host` property that lets you set per-host values. If you set this to `:current` it sets the -currentHost flag.
```

>  - Added a new host property that lets you set per-host values. If you set this to :current it sets the -currentHost flag.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 - Added a new `host` property that lets you set per-host values. If you set this to `:current` it sets the -currentHost flag.
```

### windows_dns_record

The `windows_dns_record` resource includes a new optional property, `dns_server`, allowing you to make changes against remote servers. Thanks for this addition [@jeremyciak](https://github.com/jeremyciak/).

### windows_package

> A Chef Infra Client 16 regression within `windows_package` that prevented specifying `path` in the `remote_file_attributes` property has been resolved. Thanks for reporting this issue [@asvinours](https://github.com/asvinours/)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A Chef Infra Client 16 regression within `windows_package` that prevented specifying `path` in the `remote_file_attributes` property has been resolved. Thanks for reporting this issue [@asvinours](https://github.com/asvinours/).
```

### windows_security_policy

> The `windows_security_policy` resource has been refactored to improve idempotency and improve log output when changes are made. You'll now see more complete change information in logs and any handler consuming this data will also receive more detailed change information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `windows_security_policy` resource has been refactored to improve idempotency and improve log output when changes are made. You will now see more complete change information in logs and any handler consuming this data will also receive more detailed change information.
```

## Knife Improvements

- Ctrl-C can now be used to exit knife even when being prompted for input.
- `knife bootstrap` will now properly error if attempting to bootstrap an AIX system using an account with an expired password.
- `knife profile` commands will no longer error if an invalid profile was previously set.
- The `-o` flag for `knife cookbook upload` can now be used on Windows systems.

> - `knife ssh` now once again accepts legacy DSS host keys although we highly recommend upgrading to a more secure key algorithm if possible.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `knife ssh` now once again accepts legacy DSS host keys, although we highly recommend upgrading to a more secure key algorithm if possible.
```

> - Several changes were made to knife to that may prevent intermittent failures running cookbook commands

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Several changes were made to Knife that may prevent intermittent failures while running cookbook commands.
```

## Habitat Package Improvements

> Habitat packages for Windows, Linux and Linux2 are now built and tested against each pull request to Chef Infra Client. Additionally we've improved how these packages are built to reduce the size of the package, which reduces network utilization when using the Effortless deployment pattern.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Habitat packages for Windows, Linux, and Linux2 are now built and tested against each pull request to Chef Infra Client. Additionally, we've improved how these packages are built to reduce the size of each package. This reduces network utilization when using the Effortless deployment pattern.
```
